---
layout: post
title: "The key to success - Grit"
published: true
created:  2014 Apr 03 05:29:23 PM
tags: [grit]
categories: [mind]

---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/H14bBuluwB8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

when I was 27 years old left a very demanding job in management consulting for
a job that was even more demanding teaching and went to teach seventh-graders
mass in the New York City public schools and like any teacher I'm a quizzes and
tests I give out homework assignments when the war came back I calculated
grades what struck me was that I Q was not the only difference between my best
NY were students some my strongest performers did not have stratospheric IQ
scores so my smartest kids aren't doing so well and that got me thinking things
you need to learn in 7th grade math sure they're hard ratios decibels the area
of a parallelogram but these concepts are not possible and I was thoroughly
convinced that everyone is my students could learn the material if they worked
hard and long enough after several more years of teaching I came to the
conclusion that what we need an education is a much better understanding have
students and learning from a motivational perspective from a psychological
perspective in education the one thing we know how to measure best is IQ but
what if doing well in school and in life depends on much more then your ability
to learn quickly and easily so I left the classroom and I went to graduate
school to become a psychologist I started studying kids and adults in all kinds
of super challenging settings and in every study my question was who is
successful here and why my research team and I went to West Point Military
Academy we try to predict which cadets would stay in military training and
which would drop out we went to the National Spelling Bee and try to predict
which children would advance farthest in competition we studied rookie teachers
working in really tough neighborhoods asking which teachers are still gonna be
here in teaching by the end of the school year and of those cool be the most
effective and improving learning outcomes for their students we partnered with
private companies asking which the sales people going to keep their jobs was
gonna earn the most money in all those very different contexts one
characteristic emerged as a significant predictor success and it wasn't social
intelligence wasn't good looks physical health and it wasn't like you it was
gripped greatest passion and perseverance for very long term goals great is
having stamina Britain is sticking with your future day in day out not just for
the week not just for the month but for years and working we've really hard to
make that future reality britain is living life like it's a marathon not a
sprint a few years ago I started studying threaten the Chicago Public Schools I
asked thousands of high school juniors to take break questionnaires and then we
did around more than a year to see who would graduate turns out that bring your
kids were significantly more likely to graduate even when I match them on every
characteristic I could measure things like family income standardized
achievement test scores even how safe kids felt when they were at school so
it's not just at west point for the National Spelling Bee that print matters
its also in school especially for kids at risk for dropping out to me the most
shocking thing about Brit is how little we know how little science knows about
building it everyday parents and teachers asked me how do I build Britain kids
what do I do to teach kids of solid work ethic how I keep them motivated for
the long run the honest answer is I don't know what I do know is that talent
doesn't make you pretty our data show very clearly that there are many talented
individuals who simply do not follow through on their commitments in fact in
our data grit is usually unrelated or even inversely related to measures have
talent so far the best idea I've heard about building Britain's kids is
something called growth mindset this is an idea developed at stanford
university by Carol twedt and it is in the belief that the ability to learn is
not fixed that you can change with your effort doctored what has shown that
when kids read and learn about the brain and how it changes and grows in
response to challenge they're much more likely to persevere when they fail
because date don't believe that failure is a permanent condition so brought
mine said is a great idea for building for it but we need more and that's where
I'm gonna and my remarks because that's where we are that's the work that
stands before us we need to take our best ideas our strongest intuitions and we
need to test them we need to measure whether we've been successful and we have
to be willing to fail to be wrong to start over again with lessons learnt in
other words we need to be gritty about getting our kids readier thank you

